- Let's take a closer look at the structure and key files
within our new Gradle build.
When we configured our build with Gradle's init plugin,
it created a multi-project build,
and here we can see its layout.
This project type is what Gradle recommends for most builds.
Within the root of this build we'll find the
settings dot Gradle file.
It defines the configuration and
layout of our multi project build.
Let's take a closer look at how this configuration works.
Within this file,
we can define other sub projects within the build.
Those sub projects are added by using the include statement
that we see here.
Currently within our build,
we only have a single sub project named app,
but we could include others by adding another include
statement, if we needed to.
If we return to the root of our project and inspect it,
you'll notice it contains the app directory,
which corresponds with the sub project in the
settings dot Gradle file.
Let's take a closer look at the layout and contents of the
sub project.
This directory contains the sub projects build script
and a directory that holds all of the
source files for the project.
The build script is located inside the root of the sub
project within a file named build dot gradle.
Let's open that up and take a quick look at it.
You'll recall that when we initialized our project,
we selected the groovy DSL.
Here you can get a feel for how
it's used to define resources
like dependencies, plugins,
and tasks that are necessary to build our sub project.
When you're using Gradle, the build script is
very important and we'll spend quite
a bit of time working with it.
For now, let's return to our project
and take a closer look at the
structure of our app sub project.
The Gradle Java plugins define a default structure for
where the different source files are located
within this directory.
They expect us to place the source code and
configuration files for the application
and its tests within the source directory.
By default, your application source code
is placed inside of the source
main Java directory and then a separate directory,
source test Java, is where the source code
for the tests are placed.
Inside of both of these directories is a
resources directory, where we can provide
things like configuration files for the
application or the tests.
If you need to, you can override
these directories by configuring custom
locations, known as source sets.
However, for most cases it's best to stick with this layout.
These standard directory conventions allow Gradle
to find files it needs for specific tasks,
like compiling our source code.
Now that we've seen the structure of a Gradle build,
and some of its conventions,
let's move on to the next lesson to learn
another way that we can perform a build with Gradle.